# How-to: Run the Universal Discovery

The Hybrid Platform UI application provides a widget called Universal Discovery
(often abbreviated <abbr title="Universal Discovery">UD</abbr> or <abbr
title="Universal Discovery Widget">UDW</a>). It is designed to be a handy way to
pick one or several Content items/Locations in the repository. The application
recognizes a markup convention that allows you to run and configure the
Universal Discovery.

## Markup convention

The *run Universal Discovery* convention relies on the class
`ez-js-run-universal-discovery`. If the user clicks on an HTML element holding
that class, the application will run the Universal Discovery.

Example:

```html
<button type="button" class="ez-js-run-universal-discovery">Run UDW</button>
```

**Note:** in the following paragraphs, the element holding the
`ez-js-run-universal-discovery` class is called the *run Universal Discovery
element*.

### Configuration

The Universal Discovery can be configured so that it can be used in different
contexts. The application recognizes [some HTML data
attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Howto/Use_data_attributes)
on the *run Universal Discovery element* and transforms them in configuration
options. All those data attributes start with the `data-ud-` prefix.

### Base configuration

The following data attributes are recognized:

* `data-ud-title`: its value will be used as the title of the Universal
  Discovery.
* `data-ud-multiple`: it's a boolean attribute. If it is added, the Universal
  Discovery will allow several Content items/Locations to be picked, otherwise
  only one can be selected.
* `data-ud-starting-location-id`: if set, its value will be used as the starting
  Location id when browsing the repository
* `data-ud-confirm-label`: if set, its value can be used to define the Confirm
  button label. If not specified, the button label is *Confirm*.
* `data-ud-min-discover-depth`: it can be used to set the min discover depth of
  the Universal Discovery. If set with a starting Location id, this allows you
  to restrict browsing to a given subtree.
* `data-ud-visible-method`: If set, its value can be used to set the default
  visible method in the Universal Discovery.


Examples:

Allow a multiple selection, use a custom confirm button label and search for
Content items by default

```html
<button type="button" class="ez-js-run-universal-discovery"
    data-ud-title="Pick one or several items"
    data-ud-confirm-label="One or several is OK"
    data-ud-visible-method="search"
    data-ud-multiple>Run UDW</button>
```

Restrict browsing to `/Media/Images`

```html
<!--
    51 is the Location id of /Media/Images
    2 is the depth of /Media/Images,
    so the user won't be able to pick something in /Media for instance
-->
<button type="button" class="ez-js-run-universal-discovery"
    data-ud-title="Pick something only under /Media/Images"
    data-ud-starting-location-id="51"
    data-ud-min-discover-depth="2">Run UDW</button>
```

### Restrict selection

The *run Universal Discovery* convention allows the UD to be configured to only
allow *container* Content items and/or Content items beloning to a set of
Content Types to be selected. In addition, it exposes a JavaScript event to
implement custom restrictions.

#### Container only

Adding the `data-ud-container` boolean attribute on the *run Universal Discovery
element* will configure the Universal Discovery to only allow *container*
Content items to be picked.

Example:

```html
<button type="button" class="ez-js-run-universal-discovery"
    data-ud-title="Pick a container"
    data-ud-container>Run UDW</button>
```

#### Content items of a Content Types set

The `data-ud-content-type-identifiers` can be used to let the user only pick
Content items of a Content Types set. This attribute expects a space-separated
list of Content Type identifiers.

Example:

```html
<button type="button" class="ez-js-run-universal-discovery"
    data-ud-title="Pick a Folder or an Article"
    data-ud-content-type-identifiers="folder article">Run UDW</button>
```

#### Custom restriction

To implement more advanced restrictions, the *run Universal Discovery* mechanism
also exposes the `ez:runUniversalDiscovery:select` JavaScript event.  This event
is dispatched from the *run Universal Discovery element* when the user is about
to pick a Content item/Location. It is configured [to
*bubble*](https://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Events/events.html#Events-flow-bubbling)
and to [be
*cancelable*](https://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Events/events.html#Events-flow-cancelation).
Preventing the default behaviour of this event allows you to restrict the user
from picking the corresponding Content item/Location.

<p id="selection-object">The event detail provides a selection object containing:</p>

* the Content item object under `content` as generated by
  [`eZ.Content#toObject`](https://github.com/ezsystems/PlatformUIBundle/blob/2.0/Resources/public/js/models/ez-contentmodel.js#L468)
* the Location object under `location` as generated by
  [`eZ.Location#toObject`](https://github.com/ezsystems/PlatformUIBundle/blob/2.0/Resources/public/js/models/ez-locationmodel.js#L423)
* the Content Type object under `contentType` as generated by
  [`eZ.ContentType#toObject`](https://github.com/ezsystems/PlatformUIBundle/blob/2.0/Resources/public/js/models/ez-contenttypemodel.js#L188)

Example: only allow Content items with a Field whose identifier is `image`.

```js
function hasAnImageField(selection) {
    return (
        typeof selection.contentType.fieldDefinitions['image'] !== 'undefined'
    );
}

document.addEventListener('ez:runUniversalDiscovery:select', function (e) {
    const selection = e.detail.selection; // selection object
    // const runUDElement = e.target;
    // runUDElement might be useful to retrieve the context in which the UD is run

    if ( !hasAnImageField(selection) ) {
        e.preventDefault();
    }
});
```

### Use the Universal Discovery selection

The *run Universal Discovery* convention allows handling the Universal
Discovery selection validated by the user. As for the selection restriction, a
built-in behavior can be configured and a JavaScript event allows you to
implement custom ones.

#### Fill a form input with the selection

The *run Universal Discovery* convention recognizes the `data-ud-confirm-fill`
and `data-ud-confirm-fill-with` attributes on the *run Universal Discovery
element*. `data-ud-confirm-fill` expects a selector matching an HTML input in
the page. `data-ud-confirm-fill-with` expects a *path* in the selection for a
value. When the user confirms its selection in the Universal Discovery, the
input selected by `data-ud-confirm-fill` selector will be filled with the value
found by interpreting the *path* provided in `data-ud-confirm-fill-with`
attribute.

The *path* is a dot separated string which represents the property to pick in
the selection. For instance, when selecting `/Media/Images` in the Universal
Discovery, the selection is an object similar to:

```js
{
    "content": {
        "id": 49,
        "name": "Images",
        "fields": {/* fields */}
    },
    "location": {
        "id": 51,
        "contentInfo": {
            "id": 49,
            "name": "Images"
        },
        "url": "/admin/view/content/49/full/true/51"
    },
    "contentType": {
        "names": {"eng-GB": "Folder"},
        "fieldDefinitions": {/* field definitions */}
    }
}
```

To fill the input with the Location id, `data-ud-confirm-fill-with` value should
be `location.id`. If you are interested in the name of the corresponding Content
item, you can use `content.name` or even `location.contentInfo.name`.

Example: in the following example, after confirming the selection, `#my-input`
input will receive the id of the Content item picked by the user.

```html
<input type="hidden" value="" id="my-input">
<button type="button" class="ez-js-run-universal-discovery"
    data-ud-title="Pick a Content item"
    data-ud-confirm-fill="#my-input"
    data-ud-confirm-fill-with="content.id">Run UDW</button>
```

If the Universal Discovery is configured to allow a multiple selection, the
input will be filled with the values separated by a coma.

Example: in the following example, if the user picks Locations 51 and 52, after
confirming the selection, `#my-input` input value will be `51,52`.

```html
<input type="hidden" value="" id="my-input">
<button type="button" class="ez-js-run-universal-discovery"
    data-ud-title="Pick some Locations"
    data-ud-multiple
    data-ud-confirm-fill="#my-input"
    data-ud-confirm-fill-with="location.id">Run UDW</button>
```

#### Submit the form after confirming the selection

If the *run Universal Discovery element* is a submit button (`type="submit"`
instead of `type="button"` like in previous examples), when confirming the
selection in the Universal Discovery, the corresponding form will be submitted.

Example: in the following case, when the user clicks on the *Submit* button, the
form won't be submitted right away. Instead, it will be submitted when the user
confirms the selection in the Universal Discovery after filling the input
according to `data-ud-confirm-fill` and to `data-ud-confirm-fill-with`
attributes.

```html
<form action="/form/action" method="post">
    <input type="hidden" value="" id="my-input">
    <button type="submit" class="ez-js-run-universal-discovery"
        data-ud-title="Pick a Location"
        data-ud-confirm-fill="#my-input"
        data-ud-confirm-fill-with="location.id">Submit</button>
</form>
```

#### Custom selection use

The *run Universal Discovery* mechanism also exposes the
`ez:runUniversalDiscovery:confirm` JavaScript event.  This event is dispatched
from the *run Universal Discovery element* when the user confirms the selection
and it is configured [to
*bubble*](https://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Events/events.html#Events-flow-bubbling).

The event detail provides the user selection. The selection is either [the
object described in the Custom restriction paragraph](#selection-object) or an
array of this kind of object when the Universal Discovery is configured to allow
a multiple selection. `ez:runUniversalDiscovery:confirm` event listeners are run
after taking into account `data-ud-confirm-fill` and `data-ud-confirm-fill-with`
attributes.

Example:

```js
document.addEventListener('ez:runUniversalDiscovery:confirm', function (e) {
    const selection = e.detail.selection;
    const runUDElement = e.target;
    // runUDElement might be useful to retrieve the context in which the UD is run

    console.log('Selection', selection);
    if ( isConfirmForMyContext(runUDElement) ) {
        displaySelection(selection);
    }
});
```
